# migration-and-imports
Study the relation between migration and imports

I analyse migration between states and between regions. The mini analysis is based on the State Networks dataset (found on Data is Plural), which is a compilation of many state-to-state relational variables. Migration flows form a pattern in the United States. One of the most concerned questions raised by policy makers is: what is the main driving factor that influence the migration from one state to another, and on a higher level, from one region to another? One would first look into some basic factors, including population difference and distance between states. The first plot shows that population difference between states still makes an impact, but one needs to take the state-state distance into account. Yet, it suggests that those two factors have only a weak impact on the migration. To take one step further, I looked into the imports between regions (Northeast, South, Midwest and West). The results as shown in the second plot show that the direction of migration and the direction of imports (regional and transregional) are highly correlated. It thus suggests a clear conclusion: People are migrating in the direction that goods flow! It would thus give the policy makers a hint: one may track the amount of trades to predict the volume of migration or the other way round. Enterprises may also be benefitted from such analyses if they find the imports in some time period has lagged behind the migration of people. 
